I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately,
to front only the essential facts of life,
and see if I could not learn what it had to teach,
and not,when I came to die, discover that I had not lived.

David H. Thoreau - Walden

My First Efforts At Invention
I shall dwell briefly on these extraordinary experiences, on account
of their possible interest to students of psychology
and physiology and also because this period of agony
was of the greatest consequence on my mental development
and subsequent labors. But it is indispensable to first relate
the circumstances and conditions which preceded them and in which
might be found their partial explanation.
From childhood I was compelled to concentrate attention upon myself.
This caused me much suffering but, to my present view, it was a blessing
in disguise for it has taught me to appreciate the inestimable value of
introspection in the preservation of life, as well as a means of achievement.
The pressure of occupation and the incessant stream of impressions pouring into our
consciousness thru all the gateways of knowledge make modern existence hazardous in
many ways. Most persons are so absorbed in the contemplation of the outside world that
they are wholly oblivious to what is passing on within themselves.
The premature death of millions is primarily traceable to this cause. Even
among those who exercise care it is a common mistake to avoid imaginary, and
ignore the real dangers. And what is true of an individual also applies, more
or less, to a people as a whole. Witness, in illustration, the prohibition movement.
A drastic, if not unconstitutional, measure is now being put thru in this country to
prevent the consumption of alcohol and yet it is a positive fact that coffee, tea,
tobacco, chewing gum and other stimulants, which are freely indulged in even at the
tender age, are vastly more injurious to the national body, judging from the number
of those who succumb. So, for instance, during my student years I gathered from the
published necrologues in Vienna, the home of coffee drinkers, that deaths from heart
trouble sometimes reached sixty-seven per cent of the total. Similar observations might
probably be made in cities where the consumption of tea is excessive.
These delicious beverages superexcite and gradually exhaust the fine
fibers of the brain. They also interfere seriously with arterial
circulation and should be enjoyed all the more sparingly as their
deleterious effects are slow and imperceptible. Tobacco, on the
other hand, is conducive to easy and pleasant thinking and detracts
from the intensity and concentration necessary to all original and
vigorous effort of the intellect. Chewing gum is helpful for a short
while but soon drains the glandular system and inflicts irreparable
damage, not to speak of the revulsion it creates. Alcohol in small
quantities is an excellent tonic, but is toxic in its action when
absorbed in larger amounts, quite immaterial as to whether it is taken in as whiskey
or produced in the stomach from sugar. But it should not be overlooked that all these
are great eliminators assisting Nature, as they do, in upholding her stern but just law
of the survival of the fittest. Eager reformers should also be mindful of the eternal
perversity of mankind which makes the indifferent "laissez-faire" by far preferable toenforced restraint.
The truth about this is that we need stimulants to do our best work under present living conditions,
and that we must exercise moderation and control our appetites and inclinations in every direction.
That is what I have been doing for many years, in this way maintaining myself young in body and mind.
Abstinence was not always to my liking but I find ample reward in the
agreeable experiences I am now making. Just in the hope of converting some
to my precepts and convictions I will recall one or two.
